# task-8
In this task the privacy policies of a VPN were read and analysed. The VPN's working was also observed. The network speed, IP address etc have been observed before and after connecting to VPN. This whole study is complied into screenshots and PDFs.
The Browser was opened and the IP address of the system is known by opening "https://myipaddress.com". This was recorded as a screenshot. Similarly, the network speed of the system was also calculated using an online network speed tester. This was also recorded as a screenshot.
After this, an open source VPN, Windscribe was downloaded. It was installed and setup. Then the VPN was connected, at Victoria, British Columbia. The IP address and the network speed was re-checked after connecting to the VPN. There was a difference in the IPv4 address and the IPv6 address is not detected. The network speed has reduced, since the place connected is farther.
The privacy policy of the Windscribe VPN says that only the username and password of the accessed account is recorded, they do not keep the information of the browsing data or the websites visited by the user during the usage of the VPN. They ask the e-mail which is upto the user to reveal, if revealed this is also recorded. Along with the User credentials used to login to the VPN, number of bytes used per 30 days, the active time and  last login time are also recorded. This is recorded so that if the account is inactive for many days it will be automatically pruned. The user is free to delete the account whenever required and this deletes the user credentials along with the other data recorded. These policies seem safe and reasonable.
Wireshark, a data capture tool was used to see if the data traffic is encrypted during the usage of the VPN. The data packets captured were analysed. The text or the data displayed in the panel below was in an unreadable format even after using filters etc. This indicates that the data traffic is encrypted and secure.
The uses or benefits of the VPN are Privacy protection, security on public networks like Wi-Fi, prevents data theft, access to private networks, allows access to blocked contents in certain areas(like Tik-Tok etc).
The Limitations of the VPN includes; occassional slower speeds, few VPN logs our data raising the privacy concerns, costs of few VPNs etc.
The VPN connected to the farther places has slower speed because of higher latency, congested traffic and more load on the server, stronger encryption for farther distance VPNs results in the slower network. To overcome this choosing a nearby, less crowded server would be helpful.
Thus, the VPN's working and the privacy policies were studided and analysed.
